---
layout: projects/post
title: Week 3
subtitle: Responsive Sites and Navigation
category: html
---

By now, you have a pretty good understanding of the basic structures of HTML and CSS. Today, we will continue to
implement these skills into building websites that employ flexible user interfaces -- i.e. they morph to fit the dimensions of any screen and re-adjust components like nav bars depending on the screen size.

We will first build a page that is responsive and write the CSS by hand (complete with simple nav bar) to understand how it works, and then use a CSS boilerplate called Kraken to make a responsive site for us.

## Display Property

The "display" property in CSS is responsible for different types of positioning. It often eliminates the use of float, and also is used to switch out classes in media queries.

        display: none;
        display: block;
        display: inline-block;

<a class="three" href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display">MDN Display Property</a>


## Media Queries

Media queries are magical things that let you radically change the appearance of a site based off screen size.
The syntax in CSS looks like this:

        @media (max-width: 600px) {

          /*your code here*/

        }

<a class="three" href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/CSS/Media_queries">MDN Media Queries</a>



## Kraken

<a class="three" href="../../week3.zip">Kraken Week Three Example</a>

<a class="three" href = "http://cferdinandi.github.io/kraken/">Kraken</a>

**Sass** stands for "syntactically awesome style sheets" -- it's a CSS extension language that Kraken uses.

### Kraken Grid

        <div class="container">

        <p>Kraken uses a fluid, mobile-first grid system...</p>

        <div class="row">
        <div class="grid-third">.grid-third</div>
        <div class="grid-two-thirds">.grid-two-thirds</div>
        </div>

        <div class="row">
        <div class="grid-fourth">.grid-fourth</div>
        <div class="grid-three-fourths">.grid-three-fourths</div>
        </div>

        <div class="row">
        <div class="grid-half">.grid-half</div>
        <div class="grid-half">.grid-half</div>
        </div>

        <div class="row">
        <div class="grid-full">.grid-full</div>
        </div>

        </div>

For next week, play around with Kraken, media queries, and nav bars to customize your site accordingly.
