---
layout: htmlclasspost
title: Week 5
subtitle: User Experience
category: html
---

User experience (UX) is an important consideration in web design. There are always visual trends, and the option of how much you abide (or intentionally don't abide) by them. Generally, user experience is defined the accessibility and ease for the user navigating your site.

User experience can be broken down into visual considerations and navigation, which can mean a wireframe void of visuals that instead depicts hyperlinks and buttons, etc.

Since the user comes in to the picture with their own background and presuppositions, it's important to consider the variance of the people viewing your site.

UX doesn't just apply to web design -- it's important in all facets of technology.

Check out last year's <a href="http://userexperienceawards.com/ux-awards-2014-winners/#google" class="three">UX Awards Winners</a>

When building a site, consider

* flow - how are columns lining up next to each other? Is there too much text on the screen? Are images distracting from text or vice versa?

* clicks - the less clicks to get to any page in your site, the better

* color palette - pre-setting a color palette can be an effective way to make sure your colors remain consistent through out your site.

* navigation - where your nav bar falls on the page and how it's laid out is important

* scrolling - from smooth to fixed to parallax, there are a lot of words that accompany scrolling.

<a href="http://www.sitepoint.com/big-web-design-trends-for-2015/" class="three">Expected 2015 Trends</a>

# Demos  

## Grids

Image grids can be tough to align and build correctly (and responsively)

*In-class grid demo*


## Forms

Forms come in many...forms.

<form action="mailto:klewis6@artic.edu" method="post" enctype="text/plain">
    FirstName:<input type="text" name="FirstName">
Email:<input type="text" name="Email">
<input type="submit" name="submit" value="Submit">
</form>

<a class="three" href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/Forms">MDN Forms</a>

<a class="three" href="../../5.zip" target="_blank">Download example site</a>
