---
layout: posttrans
title: "What it means to be AlONe"
category: transelemental
---

AlONe is a word comprised of aluminum, oxygen and neon. When energy–fire, in this case–is added, the reaction is subtle. Al and O bond to form a compound, which creates a solid layer. Ne disperses because it is forced into an atmosphere that it doesn’t want to be part of. 

When I chose to build AlONe, give it physical properties, and study it under the lens of chemistry, I knew I’d chosen a word that was already loaded. AlONe overflows with negative connotations. Nobody wants it. AlONe is associated with personal flaw. If you are AlONe then that means other people have chosen not to be with you. To voluntarily be AlONe is rare, and when it occurs, it’s assumed the person is flawed anyway for not wanting to share their life with others. 

AlONe is generally considered in the context of relationships, usually romantic ones. You are AlONe when you don’t have that bond with someone who supports and loves you. Maybe you have a huge family and eighty close friends, but if you go home at night to an empty house and are the only one sleeping in your bed, society considers you AlONe.

Through a semester of rigorous studies of the molecular structure of AlONe and how it reacts in a physical space, I’ve spent a lot of time AlONe. I’ve gotten to think about what it really means.

Last fall was the first time I made being an artist both my profession and hobby, and I just finished the first year of my MFA. I have chosen to devote my personal and professional time to art. The division between these two seemingly black and white parts of life has become ambiguous, which is what caused a growing interest in what it means to be AlONe.

Intensely creative, driven people have surrounded me for the past year. You can spot someone who is passionate about something a mile away. They radiate an addictive energy. Being surrounded by these people let me feel comfortable about being openly passionate about art, too.

The passion instilled by art leaves me feeling complete. Neon doesn’t flee from other elements for no reason: its outer shell has all the electrons it needs. It can’t fit anymore; therefore, it doesn’t have the room to share a bond with anything else. I fear that having something present that I am so passionate about and devoted to will take away the passion and devotion I’d save for another. I’ve spent many nights contently AlONe with my thoughts and ideas. Many of the people I’ve encountered who dedicate their lives to art and the act of creating seem to share my antics. Some are fearful that they are their own worst enemy: they don’t want to be AlONe. Some see the presence of another as an allocation of personal time that will take too much away from their practice. Some are married and practice art, exercising a delicate balance that I can’t fathom. 

When neon was forced into the AlONe atmosphere in the lab, it took up space that would have normally been filled with more oxygen. Neon’s disposition as being AlONe in itself still led to its effect in the space. The formation of the aluminum oxide layer became more sporadic, generating tiny crystals that were less cohesive than the experiments without using neon. The presence of something that is in itself complete still affects those around it. I wouldn’t argue that this closed off physical presence has only adverse effects. The crystals were quite beautiful. Separated, they each stood out and shone brighter than the unified layer they’d formed before. 

Artists affect their audience without forming physical bonds. I like to think that these impacts are similar to neon and the crystals. An artist who is AlONe still has the gift of inspiring others to find their own place and set themselves apart. The layer of aluminum oxide was much less striking than the spontaneous particles of it, all different sizes and in different locations. In this aspect of the reaction, we can find positivity in neon’s antics. It is considered chemically stable, after all. Although it only interacts with the environment for a fleeting moment before shooting in the opposite direction, its presence leaves a mark. 

As the aluminum oxide crystals continue to be submerged in neon gas, the neon particles that have long since drifted away continue their trajectory, completely uninterested in bonding even with their other neon companions. Each atom floats on, complete on its own, infinitely AlONe. Most of my fear resides in characteristics of neon. Artists around other artists who share a mutual understanding of what it means to be passionate about something also share a distance. The interaction is there but the bond may never occur simply because there isn’t any room. I feel like there may not be enough room in my own head for another person. To put down the book or shut off the computer and spend time with someone seems daunting at times. I can keep myself occupied without another. There are always things to consider, things to be planned, things to make. Sometimes I feel lonely. But feeling lonely and seeking out a human to counter that emotion are two different things. I’m wary to actively seek a solution because it might hinder my work. I am afraid of being AlONe, but AlONe I still feel complete.

AlONe is not solely comprised of atoms like neon, though. Aluminum and oxygen hold just as much importance. They aren’t opposed to forming real bonds with elements around them. On paper they spell AlONe, but in space, aluminum and oxygen form a bond with the application of energy. They form a new entity that would never exist if they’d remained apart. My studies of AlONe have also included etymologies and every possible definition. AlONe comes from the combination of “all” plus “one,” an origin that seems to suggest that something that is AlONe is stable but comprised of more than one thing, or person. Can two people complete one another and, in turn, be AlONe together? I see this affirmation in aluminum and oxygen. Invest some energy, and they form a compound. The bond is tangible, glimmering and structural. The bond in itself is one complete entity.

Sometimes I fear that having found something that I love in art will prevent me from finding someone that I love. I will forever be like neon, observing and impacting those around me, but never getting too close. Studying AlONe as I become comfortable calling myself an artist has plagued my thoughts with the consideration of what it means to be AlONe in this profession. Does neon ever look outside itself at all of the other elements around it and wish it could bond? No, of course not, it doesn’t have agency, but people do. I don’t think I could carry on like neon without worry about my inability to bond. Perhaps this sets me in the category of aluminum and oxygen. If I’m aware, then maybe there is room to find completion with someone else. Regardless, I am AlONe in either scenario, but we all are in one way or another.      
